# onlinevsoffline

"The Internet is so big, so powerful and pointless that for some people it is a complete substitute for life" Andrew Brown 

These days the use of the internet and techonoly is almost indispensable in our daily lives, but this does not make the digital world more real than the offline world, but we can find a multitude of compatibility with others, this does not mean that it is authentic and real leading to different risks. Internet services and web (social networks, blogs, forums, wikis, microblogging, etc.) are multidirectional and open channels, which allow users to achieve maximum interaction between them, while providing new opportunities for collaboration, expression and participation. First we can not compare the real world with the digital world, second identity theft is a latent risk and finally the technology is a tool to help society and not for a life change. Acording to the publication of  User Guide digital identity and reputation online “The ICT(information of Communication and Technologies) get create an "expanded identity" in most of its users: enhance their skills and allow them to stay in touch with others while maintaining different levels of relationships, intimacy,commitment,etc. A large portion of users are already developing these skills and using the advantages that encompasses the idea of digital identity with varying degrees of commitment, attachment or disclosure of your privacy”, but what is the price about this information?
In this essay we are going to talk about the pros or contrats and its consequences related to the battle between the digital reality and the offline reality.  

Older generations often comment that millenials depend on the Internet. Facebook has become a yearbook. Twitter their venting place and Tumblr their creating realm. We tend to put our best face online. We have control of what we show and what we hide. That doesn't make their online world more real, if not fake, because of its own definition: digital = not real.

In this time where it has been a great technological revolution, we have the world in the palm of our hand with just a click. Lately, it has been observed that there are people who question the benefits of the online world, arguing that this is something that damages our daily lives. Most of these problems existed in analog media such as excess of consumerism and the proliferation of content. In short, online life can’t replace offline; it should be clear that technology is a tool to help society and not for a change of life. "We live in two parallel and different worlds: the online and offline," says Zygmunt Bauman, Polish sociologist and philosopher. "We have reached a point where we spend more time in front of screens than in front of others and that has disturbing effects we don’t normally see," says this philosopher. Bauman has been the most influential sociologist of recent decades and has been devoted to define modernity and the double life (online and offline). The latest research statistics show that people spends about eight hours daily in front of a screen causing the offline life absence. In the offline life we are used to suffer attacks, discrimination based on sexual preference or color and even attacks of our religion which we cannot avoid but we can avoid it on the internet. That's when people find a magic solution to avoid problems. In real life it is difficult to do this but in online life you just simply click and everything bad disappear as magic. Bauman mentions that being focused on online life causes in the offline the impoverishment of the ability to talk, listen and understand. Our attention is scattered. In the world people gather to discuss about economics, security, etc. and reach agreements… Could we do this in the online life? And the importance of seeing the other person's eyes and realize if they lie or if they are sincere?
We need to use digital media to develop and strengthen our core personality. Solidarity is worthless anywhere if we are tremendous bastards in real life. It is not isolating the online life or neglecting the great virtues of communication that online offers, it's about having a match and will be able to partake of something while around us aside, in short, establish a link between the world back offline and online media and reflects our actual image.

Moreover theft of digital identity is one of the most common cases for which the online world is not the best, Digital Identity Theft  online, or phishing (pronounced like the word fishing) is a way to trick users into revealing personal or financial information through an email or website, or create fake profiles impersonating someone else in order to harm a person, that is, defame or tarnish his name for various purposes which are look, either to discredit the impersonated person or commit some type of crime. The  OSI (Internet User Security Office) reported “if it comes to creating a fake profile on social networks, but no personal information concerned is used, then it is not considered a crime so the only action you can take the concerned is to notify the social network to delete the fake profile, but it can happen that a person impersonates another using your email or your social networking accounts (for which it has had to make an initial robbery of passwords, intrusion into computer systems, etc.) here both supplanting occurs as identity theft by making it an offense and may be terminated. So that the online world we make more preacautions shore.

Many people would think that the way social media is evolving is going to dominate the way of life of all the persons in the world. As we speak now, according to the Internet live stats, “there are 317,650,313 users on Twitter and 1,438,195,242 users on Facebook”, and the numbers grow bigger daily. With this statistics can we assure digital world is more real than offline? Definitely no. First, and the most important one, you can’t compare your real world with your online world, because the digital world is not real, is only an algorithm created by the computer, real life is 
there, you can see it, touch it, smell it, something digital will never have. 

Secondly, because of all the consequences it brings to consider your digital world as the real one, as Bauman says “Today we live simultaneously in two parallel and different worlds… We are slowly forgotten, or have never learned the art of dialogue… The future of our cohabitation in modern life is based on the development of the art of dialogue. Dialogue involves a real intention to understand each other to live together” Online world is making people dependant to this way of communication, and in a close future we will become merely robots that will forget the act of human relationship and even worse the act of dialog that is so important in order to exchange ideas and information. Digital world is no real and many people don't seem to understand it. 

In conclusion, we can’t consider the online world as another reality or even consider it our new reality. The consequences of this type of decision can bring no only complications to us, but to the whole humanity. First because of the lost of human contact and dialogue, because we grow accustomed to talk to other through a screen and not having the eye to eye contact, creating puppets of the digital world. But the worst part of this is the problems it causes to our identity and personal life. Any person can steal our identity or destroy it ourselves because we get so deep on the web that we forget the real life, the life were we need to live and not in one that will never exist no matter what. 
The consequences are bigger if we adopt the digital world at full. The best way to avoid this is to use technology only when necessary and stop a dependency on this gadgets and social media that only corrupt our humanity. We need to understand when digital media helps us and when it doesn’t, only by then we would have a balanced life were we can live with online and offline worlds. 

References
- Tapscott, D. (2009). La era digital. McGraw Hill. Retrieved from Universidad Tecnológica de México online library

- “Vivimos en dos mundos paralelos y diferentes: el online y el offline” (2014). Differences between online and offline life. Retrieved July. 15, 2014, from http://www.clarin.com/

- Internet Live Stats (2015) Retrieved July 15, 2015 from http://www.internetlivestats.com/ 

- Lee, J. (14 de january de 2014). makeuseof. From Theinternet: http://www.makeuseof.com/tag/6-warning-signs-digital-identity-theft-shouldnt-ignore/

- SANTO-, M. A.-Ó. (10 de Marzo de 2013). INTECO. From Guía para usuarios: identidad digital y reputación online Página 18 de 55: PDF]Guia para usuarios: identidad digital y reputación online- file:///C:/Users/Jos%C3%A9Jaime/Downloads/guia_identidad_reputacion_usuarios%20(1).pdf
